Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode
216 recorded January 13th
2021 I'm Michael Kennedy. I'm Brian Akin and Brian. We have a special guest Yusef. Welcome
Hey, great to have you here. You want to just take a quick moment and tell folks about yourself maybe about your podcast real quick
Yeah, sure
Thanks for even being able to participate in this podcast
So my name is Joseph and I might not be well known as you guys are for sure
I'm a mechanical engineer from Germany and based in Germany as well
And I'm working for IT company called SimScale who are providing cloud-based simulation technology on the site
I'm hosting a podcast called engineered mind and I'm working on a bunch of other stuff
For example my thesis which will extensively cover. Let's see him this podcast. Yeah. Yeah, I used a couple of cool
libraries and stuff over there, which we'll feature here.
All right, well, the very first item, Brian,
Ron, let's talk about maybe doing,
what, should I do a pip search a lot?
- Yeah, well, I kind of forgot pip search was a thing,
'cause when I'm looking for PyPI stuff,
I go to pypi.org and just--
- Yeah, so do I, that's, yeah, exactly.
It's really fast there.
- Yeah, but there's a feature called pip.
you can do a pip search, which the documentation says
it's supposed to search for PiPI packages
whose name or summary contains whatever query.
So I can say pip search, Pytest, for instance,
and it should show me what if Pytest is a package on PiPI.
But right now, if you do that,
it comes back with a big trace back and it says,
fault, what, minus 32500, runtime error,
the pipe is XML. Anyway, the API is broken. So this is on purpose. The what happened is
actually I don't know really what's happened, but there's the it's the services getting
swamped the the search endpoint is getting it extremely hard. So I saw some message or
some tweet that was to the effect of is somebody out there running an insane number of searches
against this endpoint? Please don't. Yeah, I don't know what's going on. But so there's
some guesses, maybe it's a rogue continuous integration server or something weird's going
on. But in the meantime, right now, we're going to link to a Python infrastructure status
page which has an update on this. So if anybody wants to follow, you can check that out. It
says that the search endpoint remains disabled due to ongoing request volume. And I think
This really started becoming a problem mid-December,
and so I'm not sure what happened then.
And then there's a related issue on GitHub for pip.
So there's an issue open saying,
"Remove the pip search command."
So I think the end result is,
and even the error message says,
"The search endpoint will be deprecated in the near future."
So I think that this way to do pip search
is just going to go away.
So, and--
- That's actually a little surprising
because usually a lot of these things
are so backwards compatible.
- Yeah, and there's quite a discussion on the issue thread,
but there's the gist of it is,
is the current architecture is not,
it was never designed to handle the volume
it's getting right now.
So there's a comment at the end of the thread
that says, if you've got an idea
for how to do this algorithm better,
or a way to do it scaled, go ahead and discuss it.
But there's a link to,
we're not gonna put that link in the show notes,
but in the IPI thread or the GitHub thread,
there's a link to, if you wanna comment on that.
But basically, we're bringing this up.
You may have figured out it might be a fluke or whatever,
but it's really going on.
And a plea to look at your continuous integration scripts.
And if you're doing a pip search in there, take those out.
- It ain't gonna work anyway.
- It's gotta be some kind of bot,
some automatic thing like this,
because it's already given the error message.
Like people would stop, you know, if it wasn't.
Maybe somebody's trying, like constantly trying
to scrape all of the PyPI data out, I don't know.
- Yeah, why do it with search?
That's just weird.
- Yeah, exactly.
I don't know what's going on here,
but I guess don't do it.
- Don't do it.
(laughing)
- Doctor, it hurts when I do this, stop doing that.
So the next one that I wanna talk about
is QPython, not QTPython or Qt or anything like that,
but QPython, which is a way to do Python on Android.
So we've talked about a couple of interesting applications.
We've talked about Carnets or Carnet.
I think it's French pronunciation, I've been told.
And that's a really cool way to do like Jupyter on iPad.
So local, all of these are local,
obviously not just running in the browser.
There's Pythonista, which is really interesting.
And QPython is also an interesting one
for a couple reasons,
'cause you get an SDK and a REPL for your Android device,
which is pretty interesting.
But the reason I'm covering it, I think it's interesting.
Somebody, I think somebody sent this over.
No, I ran across this myself.
Anyway, it allows you just to integrate
with the underlying Android APIs and features for automation.
Yeah, cool, right?
So you can do things like check the system,
you can send out toast notifications,
you can interact with applications,
you can mess with the clipboard,
you can do barcode scanning, speech recognition,
send emails, like all those kinds of things
around even screen brightness,
checking your battery or whatever.
So if you wanna get access
and automate your Android things, Python,
well, here's a cool little app to do it.
- Okay, wait a second.
So I'm not an Android user that much.
I've got like one Android tablet,
but I didn't know it can make toast.
- Yeah, well, it really prefers sourdough,
but it will go even as far as rye if you have to.
- No, what's toast?
Do you know what toast is?
- It's like a pop-up notification, I think.
- Oh, okay.
(laughing)
- Josef, are you an Android person or an iPhone person?
- I have to confess I'm an iPhone person.
I used to be completely against iPhone,
but once you're in the ecosystem, you never get out.
- It's like the godfather,
they just keep pulling you back in, man.
Yeah, I just recently got a new iPhone as well,
and I'm general about it,
but because we have our mobile apps,
the training for the courses,
I've got an Android tablet,
and I've got an Android phone and so on.
Oh, also got a comment here on YouTube.
So is it an own framework,
can you use it in Android, Kotlin and Java?
I believe it's more like an app that you run,
and then within that you can do little jobs and stuff.
So way to aesthetic, it's not something you can bring in
that I'm aware of, 'cause you install it from Google Play,
for example, to get started and so on.
But maybe you can plug it in.
They do talk about having SDK, so possibly,
but I got the sense that's more for writing code outside
than getting it on your device.
But yeah, pretty cool.
So if you're into Android,
You want to do Python automation on it.
This is pretty cool.
It's free, get it on the Android store.
It apparently has ads, but it's also open source.
So go with that.
- Do you know if there's a counterpart for iOS?
- I don't know about the automation side.
There's a thing called Carnets, which is really cool.
Let's see if I can find that.
Carnets app, I believe that's how you spell it.
Yes, that's Jupyter on the app store.
And that thing, I don't really want to open the app store,
but apparently I have to.
Well, so much for that.
But Carnets, it's here.
Oh, and it's also on Google Play.
Is that the same thing?
No, that's a totally different thing.
But Carnets or Carnet is a very cool app
that lets you do something similar.
And there's also Pythonista.
Those are the two I know for iOS.
All right, so moving along.
Yosef, maybe tell us a little bit about your research
and then some of the,
one of the libraries you've been working with here.
- Yeah, sure.
So Open3D is one of the possibilities to visualize.
- There you go.
- 3D point cloud.
- I had it out of order.
Yeah, yeah, let's talk about PyTorch first.
- That's fine.
That's just fine.
So PyTorch 3D is basically an option.
Let's say if you work with meshes,
let's say a mesh consists of edges and points, for example,
and these edges connect all the points
and what you get at the end is a mesh.
So PyTorch, which is for Facebook, Facebook AI research,
and they created this framework, so to speak,
to be able to work efficiently with 3D data.
So unfortunately I'm using point cloud data,
But the beautiful thing is that
if you use PyTorch native application,
which you produce for your 3D geometry,
it runs, I wouldn't say significantly,
but roughly 10 times slower than this PyTorch 3D,
which is implemented especially for 3D problems.
- Wow.
Okay, so what kind of problem do people solve?
What problem are you solving when you're working with this?
- Yeah, so in the beginning,
it was like I was doing some kind of research.
Unfortunately, they are coming out paper like every day
And not too many, actually, in the field of deep learning, especially when it comes to
point cloud or geometric data.
And the goal, just to inform the audience a bit, is my goal is basically to use deep
learning and use some kind of or create an assistant system for engineers and designers.
That means, let's say you're an engineer, and we have this CAD model, so C-A-D, which
stands for Computer Aided Design.
So we'd create a model, for example, of a gear, and then you would have that gear.
But sometimes we have this differentiation between implicit knowledge and explicit knowledge.
explicit knowledge means this is existing knowledge, which we already know about, let's
say this knowledge, this knowledge can sit in a database.
And sometimes we are not making use out of it.
And then we have this implicit knowledge, let's say an engineer comes into a company
is completely new, and he brings knowledge with him to the company.
Now, the problem I want to tackle is because we're having so many data, and we're accumulating
geometric data in a company, we have to make use of that.
And my approach is hopefully when I'm at the end of the thesis, which is like in roughly
two months, is that I have a system or web application as a front end, where the engineer
or designer picks or starts a design or picks a point cloud or a design.
And then it would suggest the engineer or designer with a probability of what they want
to model.
Let's say he picks a gear, or maybe you want to have like an arrangement of gears, or any
specific big component, or let's say you take a wheel.
Okay, for example, what would you...
Like for a transmission or something?
Exactly.
For a transmission.
pick a wheel and it could be a Tesla or it could be any other car. And then it would
give you a probability, okay, this wheel is maybe from a Tesla. And then it would give
suggest you Tesla with a, for example, 89% probability. And then you would click on the
web application. This is the idea. And then it would pop the geometry into the web browser
in the front end.
Oh, that's pretty cool. So it basically it's like image recognition, but instead of for
pictures, it's image recognition for 3d CAD outlines.
Exactly. It's so cool that you mentioned it, because there's a big difference between doing
convolutional neural networks or deep learning for images, because images are 2D. It's like
a 2D matrix. But if you have a point cloud, then you have a tensor of higher dimensionality.
And then you are kind of forced to use, for example, NumPy and all these kinds of things.
And if you're lucky, you could use something like PyTorch, PyTorch 3D, which you can also
use CUDA on to be way more efficient.
Yeah, yeah. Wow, that's really cool. So it looks like a neat thing. This is, you know,
I haven't done any 3D work for a while,
but yeah, it looks pretty cool.
I would love to see, I don't know,
some pictures and stuff.
It would not be neat, but yeah.
- They have a very good,
like if someone is interested in seeing
what PyTorch 3D can do,
Facebook AI Research has an own YouTube channel
and they pitched PyTorch 3D on that channel
and they really do a nice,
they show you what you can do with it.
So it's really interesting.
- Yeah. Oh, awesome.
Well, I guess I'd never really thought about
applying AI, ML stuff to 3D meshes,
but it makes perfect sense.
And I can see it's totally different than images.
- Yeah. - Yeah, very cool.
Brian, you don't do any CAD stuff with your devices, do you?
- Well, I mean, yeah, some people do.
(laughing)
Not me, though.
There's a lot of CAD that goes on
in the ASIC design and stuff.
- Yeah, I can imagine.
Yeah, cool.
All right, now before we get to the next one,
I wanna get something sorted out, Brian.
- Okay.
- I wanna talk about Datadog.
So they're back to support the show.
Thank you, Datadog. - Yay!
- Yay!
And so they're really about helping you troubleshoot
latency, CPU, memory bottlenecks in your apps.
And if you don't know where it's coming from,
Datadog will seamlessly correlate the logs
and the traces at the level of individual requests
cross systems, allowing you to quickly troubleshoot
your Python app.
And they have a continuous profiler that allows you to
find the most resource consuming parts of your app
in production, just running all the time at any scale.
And it has very little overhead.
So that's pretty cool.
Instead of trying to debug it and then deploy it
and hope that kind of translates to production,
just turn it on and watch.
So yeah, that's cool.
So be the hero that got that app back on track
at your company, get started with a free trial
and support the podcast at pythonbytes.fm/datadog
or just click the link in your podcast player show notes.
Now that that's sorted out, Brian.
- Yeah, yeah, so sorting, sorting's a thing
and the default Python containers are not sorted
and there's reasons behind that,
but sometimes you need to sort stuff.
So there's a Python library called,
or a package called sorted containers.
It's a, I like it.
It's a very, I mean, I like the name at least.
It's a very easy to remember sort of thing,
but it's, this is amazing.
I looked into this.
So this was recommended by Fanchin Bao recently
for us to take a look at.
And it's a pure Python based sorted collections library.
And it's as fast as other packages
that are built using C extensions.
- Wow.
- That's the impressive part.
It's also fairly memory safe,
but the documentation is pretty cool.
There's a whole bunch of different benchmarks.
So you can take a look at how it deals with large things,
but it's really pretty zippy.
It was pretty cool.
Right on the front page, there's an example,
and we're gonna throw this in the show notes too,
of just, you've got,
it handles a handful of different data types.
It shows sorted list, sorted dictionaries, and sorted set.
There's also a sorted key list,
and I had to look that up to figure out what that was.
So, sorted, the sorted function within Python
allows you to pass in a key,
which the key really is a function to use
to create a key for sorting.
And--
- Right, 'cause the things in there
might not have a natural sort, right?
Like you put a bunch of order objects in there,
well, how do you sort those?
Do you sort them by price?
Do you sort them by date?
- Right. - Right, so you select
out that element, yeah?
- Yeah, you should have it selected out.
Or you can do something like,
they might be sortable by default,
but you want it to be like a reverse sort
or something like that.
- Right. - So,
and there's some caveats listed
so that you have to make sure that your,
the key that you pass in,
it follows some conventions like two identical items
should be, should have the same key, stuff like that.
That's all reasonable things.
But it's a fairly easy and complete package to just use.
It looks, it acts just sort of like a normal,
the normal thing, containers like lists
and dictionaries and sets.
It just remains sorted all the time.
And this is pretty incredible, so.
- Yeah, I can totally see bugs get into your code
'cause you're like, well, we put stuff into this list
and oh, I want the latest one, so it's the last one,
but maybe you forgot to sort it before you did that
or the first one's the last
'cause you reversed it or whatever.
- So one of the things that confused me
when I first looked at this,
I was scratching my head for a second
'cause it looks like a fairly simple set of examples
with just like small set of elements in it.
So like the first one is a list of like A, B,
E-A-C-D-B, just a few characters.
And it's a whole bunch of these examples
with just a little small amounts.
And it says, underneath it says,
all of the demo listed above takes a gigabyte of memory.
And I'm like, what the heck?
Why is it taking so much memory?
(laughing)
- It's only five things, come on.
- Yeah, I mean, like why?
- It's cheap, don't worry about it.
- But there's, hidden in there,
there's an example of that five character list
sorted list that gets multiplied by 10 million.
So it's a 10, like a 50 million element.
>> 50 million characters in a list that got sorted, right?
>> Yeah. So and then all the operations like count.
So you can say, count all the C's in there,
it'll tell you how many there are.
Although a lot of these operations like counting stuff with
a sorted set take less than linear time.
So yeah, so there's times you need sort
and this is a cool one to check out.
- Yeah, it's cool.
It's nice that it's pure Python,
super easy to install, right?
And it's not gonna have any like weirdness around that.
Like if you say got an M1 computer
and thing won't compile or whatever.
No, this looks really cool.
Yousef, what do you think?
- Yeah, this looks amazing.
I'm also, I'm in touch with my brother on the side
and he's also watching our podcast at the moment.
And he's also saying because of the one gigabyte memory
for sorting is incredible, it's crazy.
- Yeah, that's pretty awesome.
I guess it's just showing like you can have a ton
and it's all nice.
So it's, I mean, it seems really straightforward,
but having these things sorted,
we just got dictionaries that would stay put.
So having sorted dictionaries is also cool.
(laughing)
- Yeah.
- Right, it used to be that they sort of,
if they had the same keys and stuff,
or they wouldn't necessarily retain their order
of the things you added, but now they do.
- Right, so if people are confused and think,
- Well, aren't dictionaries already sorted?
No, they just stay in the order that they were created.
- Exactly.
- So.
- Yeah, similar, but not exactly the same thing.
- Yeah.
- All right, so I wanna, this next one,
I wanna riff a little bit on typing
and I wanna do that around a tweet,
which I think I've got to put into a different type of,
hold on, for some reason, Twitter has stopped showing me
like the entire conversation of things.
I don't know why, but I guess it doesn't really matter.
So Lucas Lenga responded to a tweet that went out there.
You know, Lucas is obviously his core developer.
He's been doing really important stuff,
but one of the main focuses that he's been working on
is around type hints and typing with things like mypy.
He was instrumental in bringing typing to Facebook
and the Instagram code bases and things like that.
So there's a tweet that says,
"Controversial take, types in a Python code base
are a net negative.
That's not Lucas.
This is his, he's about to have a whole long conversation
about this that I'm gonna talk about.
But Brian, what do you think?
You retweeted this.
- Them's fighting words.
- Them's is fighting words.
Yeah, so what do you think?
- I think that they're good.
- Yeah, I do too.
I think when I first saw them, I was a little concerned.
Like, oh my goodness, this is going to potentially,
you know, turn Python into something like TypeScript.
And while I appreciate what TypeScript does
to make JavaScript much better,
I almost always walk away from working with TypeScript
with a feeling of like, ah, that kind of hurt
and was painful, I wonder why it had to go that way,
you know, because the TypeScript requires,
it's like, it's like C# or C++,
the types have to match and they have to be there.
And if they don't match at all,
then it just won't work, right?
It's super frustrating.
I know this thing is not defined and you know,
'cause there's libraries that might not have types
and then how do you work with them?
It's just, if I find it,
there's always some little edge case
that's like, oh, this is frustrating.
But I never feel that way with Python
and I really have come to love Python's type hints.
And obviously, Lucas starts out his conversation
saying this is easily disproven.
If you ever use PyCharm or VS Code,
the code completion in there is based on type annotations.
If you've ever seen your editor highlight a function
and squiggly say this expects something else
then what you're giving it,
besides the number of variables,
but like you're giving it a string
and it wants a number or something like that,
you're using type annotations
and you can enhance your code by doing that, right?
So I was actually talking to Yusuf about this yesterday.
My philosophy, or maybe my rule of thumb is
you don't have to always do it this way,
but if you're working in your editor
and you have to type more than say three characters
to get some kind of symbol to come up,
you're probably doing it wrong.
So like if you have email service
and you wanna have email service send account email,
you should be able to say .sae,
S-A-E, right, send account email.
And it should know the type that's been returned,
what an email service is, that it has this property,
and just write it for you, right?
So to me, a lot of the typing stuff,
I know, I mean, this comment is somewhat about bugs,
like I never found a good bug because of this.
To me, that's almost like a side benefit.
It's about quickly generating code
without stopping to go look at the code definition,
without going over to the documentation
to see what I could have typed over here.
You know, it's, for example, AWS people,
this is insanely frustrating to work with AWS
because you get these like weird,
create this service and you give it a name
and then you get an S3 service back,
but it has no idea that it's an S3 service.
So you get zero help on what anything,
even I think go to definition doesn't quite work
because it's, you know, use some factory method
to reach down some weird place and get the thing.
So I think really driving the code generation experience
without being in documentation,
without jumping around and reading all the source,
just go for it.
I think it's super nice.
So to me, that is the biggest win of all of this stuff.
So let me give you--
- The entire thread is very interesting.
So-- - Yeah, yeah.
So let me touch on a couple of the points of the thread
'cause I can't get it to come up in the screen share,
but that's fine.
I took notes, luckily.
So some of the things he pointed out,
he's like, here's tweet one of 10.
So number one, put enough annotations,
and then the tooling will connect the dots
and make plenty of errors evident,
as well as like heighten this code generation,
auto magic, right?
That's one.
The most common types of errors though,
that'll creep in is if none is being used
where you expect a concrete type.
And things like mypy will say,
you're using a type that is an optional of something,
but you're not checking to see if it's none
before you dereference it.
You're probably gonna end up at some point
with an attribute, none type does not contain attribute,
whatever you tried to do, you know, upper or whatever, right?
- None is not scriptable or something.
- Yes, yeah, something like that, right?
Or callable or any of the things.
Also, another common bug is the return case.
So if you've got a function,
you can, you know, maybe check something
and return one value, check something else,
return another value.
But if you forget at the end and you fall through
and you don't put up some kind of concrete return type,
Python functions just return none.
Like this actually blew me away when I learned Python
and I learned about functions
that they always, always, always return something.
There's no such thing as a void function in Python.
- Yeah.
- As a C++ person, that probably surprised you too, right?
Like with your C++ background.
- I did a bunch of other Perl and stuff like that.
So it wasn't too bad. - Oh, okay.
- But the return type is actually
one of the greatest documentation features as well,
because sometimes you can kind of figure out
what the parameters are going to look like.
Think, you know, you can guess.
But what's the return type?
Is it going to be a list?
Is it going to be a tuple?
Is it going to be a single element?
What if there's more than one element?
Having type hints around the return types is a great feature.
Yeah, absolutely.
All right, let me touch on a couple more.
And I see some listener comments in the stream as well.
Squiggly lines in your editor, anyone?
Like I just got this the other day.
I thought I was supposed to pass an object ID,
the primary key in Mongo, but we'd overridden it,
and it's actually a string,
and it said you're passing object ID
when you expect a string.
I'm like, oh, yeah, I guess I am.
All right, well, change that.
Right, that's really nice,
instead of that being a runtime error.
And he talks about the work with TypeScript
and Anders Halsberg and what he did to help build that.
And TypeScript, like I said, is pretty neat.
But he also points out that, you know,
the same company, Microsoft,
is developing powerful type checking and code completion
for Python with VS Code.
And they have one of the Python steering council folks
working on there, hint, maybe that's Brett.
And also possibly the Python creator himself, Guido.
So do you think those two people
would be working on something
that just provides the illusion of productivity?
Probably not.
So let's see, a couple comments.
Chris May, hey Chris, happy to see you out there.
He says, "Code completion is such a confidence builder too."
I think it's so awesome because for me,
it's both amazing for beginners
'cause they can type dot and go, "Now what?"
And for experts, they can just blast out code so quickly
because you just type dot a few things
and you know, like you said, with confidence,
you just keep going.
- Oh, sorry, a lot of these features,
you get them if everybody around you
writing the code that you're using is using type ints.
You don't necessarily need to use type ints yourself,
but then you're being a bad citizen
and not helping the people out that you're sharing code with.
So if you don't share code at all,
and you're only working on projects with yourself,
then, you know, go ahead, don't use type-ins.
- It's up to you, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
Yousef, what do you think?
Do you guys use type-ins on your project?
- No, not really.
Like, it's not something that's in our conscious mind,
I would say.
I'm not sure if it's also something related
because you're an engineer.
I wouldn't want to generalize,
but engineers are usually bothered with the problem itself
rather than digging down on types, for example.
It depends also on what language we use.
- Yeah, it's a bit of a computer science-y topic,
I can see, but yeah, like I said,
I love how it generates the content so much easier.
Magnuson also commented, "I love, for example, Pydantic,
"but I agree with Romalo," Luciano Romalo,
who was in this thread,
"Hopefully it won't be required in Python
"to help people get started."
Yeah, so I think the typing stuff is really interesting.
Like Pydantic, we've talked about a bunch.
It's a super interesting example
of really using typing to generate
cool data ingestion and processing.
Like if you say I've got a Pydantic model
and one of its fields is a list of integers
but you give it a list and the things
in the list happen to be strings that could be
integers, it'll automatically convert it.
Stuff like that is really fantastic.
I think that's always going to be an add-on
type of thing.
Yeah, even though I'm a fan of
type ints, I don't use them all the time
and I would be very opposed
to having them be required.
Yes, I would too. I would too.
I don't think they need to be on the whole code base.
I mean, it depends if your goal is to say
I want to use them for mypy or mypyc
and like completely generate stuff.
But if your goal really is to
get a little bit of help with editors,
just having it on the boundaries.
Like here's the data access layer.
The things that come out of there return
whatever and they take the, like you don't have to do anything else
and the editors will pick it up and run.
Yeah.
Alright, one quick question.
What is a function return if there's no return?
It returns none.
So that's why you don't have to just say whether there's a return type.
It always returns none.
All right.
Next up, I guess we got the one I tried to open with there.
Uh, Yusef is, open 3d.
That looks fun.
Yeah, this is, basically a library which you could use in
Jupiter, which I tried to use, but somehow they at the moment
have problems using open 3d.
So what you can do is you call open 3d in your Jupyter notebook and then
have it have the point cloud visualized.
Um, however, there are some ways around it, but open 3d, I think.
If I would start all over again, I would probably use Open3D to visualize my point cloud,
which I'm actually working with in my Jupyter notebook.
I'm not sure if using a Jupyter notebook is also something you would recommend personally,
maybe Brian and Michael, if you're a fan of Jupyter notebooks.
I think it depends on the application, right?
Yeah, I think it depends as well. And to me, it really depends on what I'm trying to do
and like the kind of code. Am I trying to explore data?
And does it have a really strong visualization component?
Or is it like a utility type thing?
So for example, one of the things that I wrote recently
that I would never put into a Jupyter notebook,
but I find really helpful is we've got literally thousands
of video files, MP4s and whatnot for the online courses.
And in order to import them,
one of the things I have to tell the database
is how long in seconds is each file
and where does it live and stuff.
So I've got a little script and I just say,
go to this directory and generate a little JSON output
for all of the files and parse them
and tell me how long they are.
Like that kind of app doesn't belong there, right?
It's just, that's a command line type of utility
type of thing.
But if I want to visualize something like this,
I think it may well be really good for it actually.
So I think it varies.
- Yeah, there's a lot of application parts of my work
that I think using a Jupyter Notebook
actually might be more beneficial.
So I'm often taking big, huge trace datas
and stuff for like spectrum traces.
And those could easily be driven from a Jupyter notebook
and with the visualization stuff would be good.
- Yeah, cool.
So this thing is a set of both C++ and Python libraries
for basically working with 3D meshes, right?
- Mostly 3D data.
For example, if you use a LIDAR,
so when you work with a laser and this looks, for example,
great, I never watched the video,
but if you scan objects in your surroundings,
Usually what you get is a point cloud
and which you can then visualize using Open3D.
And the big disadvantage with point clouds
is that they're kind of unstructured.
So you could have one matrix representing one point cloud
and you could have the same matrix switching two points
but the matrix would be different.
This is also a problem that a lot of papers
try to tackle and make sure that,
yeah, get around the spot.
- Nice, you have the example video here
using Open3D for 3D object detection,
which is, that's pretty wild.
Yeah, nice.
- The things people do these days.
- I know, I think it's really interesting,
all this image processing and analysis stuff, yeah.
- Good question, Brian, by the way.
This is what I ask myself when I listen to Python Bytes.
As an engineer, what are you guys doing?
It's great.
(laughing)
- Absolutely.
Cool, all right, well, that's it for all of our main items.
Brian, you got anything extra
that you want to throw out there?
- Yeah, I just wanted a couple things.
One, 2021 has been exhausting so far.
- Yeah.
- I don't know if anybody else has got the same experience,
but wow.
And also, I've got a lot of extra projects,
side projects that I'm working on right now.
Python Bytes is one of them,
but there's other stuff going on as well,
trying to do more writing.
And because of that,
testing code has shifted to an every other week cadence.
So it's not going away.
I know a lot of, oddly enough, I've had a lot of feedback
in the last couple of months of people saying,
"Thank you for the podcast, I've learned so much."
So I do not, I don't wanna shut it down.
I wanna keep it going,
and there's no plans on shutting it down.
It's just slowing down so that I have room in my life
for other projects as well.
So just wanted to let people know that.
- Yeah, well, yeah, I try to, for a Talk Python,
batch it up and do a whole bunch.
Just to say, "This week, I'm just gonna get nothing done,
"but I'll do a ton of recording,"
and then just roll them out.
I had three months of stuff done in like a week and a half.
I was, I really needed a break after that,
but then I was good.
- Cool.
- Yeah, cool.
Well, thanks for the update.
Yousef, anything you want to share
on the way out into the show?
- I just want to say thank you for letting me
or being able to participate in this quick and brief podcast
and keep doing what you do guys.
I follow you both on Twitter and what you share
and what you do is really amazing.
So it's really inspiring for an engineer
who wants to delve into the field of Python
and all fancy kind of things to listen to your podcast,
taking your courses or following you on social media.
It's really great.
You learn a lot.
And I actually have to learn more to be honest to myself.
- Yeah, I have to learn more.
- Yeah.
- It never stops.
It never stops.
- Yeah, that's right.
- Yeah, but that's awesome.
Thank you so much.
Really appreciate that.
- How about you, Michael?
- I have one quick thing driven by yours,
a comment you had last time.
So Francisco Silva pointed out,
we had talked about some of the numpyc,
Pythonic, the idiomatic numpy stuff that you might do
and how instead of looping over stuff,
you can just add, say, two numpy arrays
and it'll add them or you can dot product them
and whatnot, right?
So one of the things you can do,
I guess we also talked about ones and zeros
to generate a pre-built list of those.
So one of the things he talked about
is the all-close method.
So if you've got floating point numbers,
one of the things that's really frustrating
like, are these equal? Well, does it mean floating point numbers equal, right?
Like, they could be so nearly the same, but not the same, right?
They could be within an insane amount of closeness, right?
Like, 10 decimal places and then a one, right?
So, all close is like, well, if they're within, you know,
one one thousandth of each other, consider them the same.
Well, all close takes a bunch of parameters that you can,
you can specify the tolerance though.
So, yeah. Anyway, I thought that was cool.
Yeah. Hey, while we're on the topic, I may as well throw out,
I've got it. So I tried to use this method of using NumPy,
and I ran into a problem. So I'm hoping some data science people can help me
figure out how to solve it. So my problem is just
the simple thing if I've got two arrays,
I want to see if all of the elements are element-wise less than or equal to the other element
in the other array. Okay, I can do that with NumPy.
But what I can't, that assumes that all of the
elements are the same data type, like comparable.
If there are strings thrown in there,
It doesn't work.
So obviously, I don't know if it's obvious,
but so I had to do some cleanup at a time,
but I don't know what the most, the best way is.
Reach out to me if you've got an answer.
- Awesome.
Yeah, I don't have an answer, but I'm sure people do.
And a quick, quick comment here.
This is the one I wanna show.
Magnus Carlsen says, "Tip, I found out about Copier,
"an alternative to cookie cutter that can be run later
"as well to update the project to a newer template."
That's pretty cool.
I hadn't heard of that.
And also Toml spec has reached 1.0.
Parser might be added to the standard lib.
Also haven't covered that, but that's cool news.
Thanks for sharing you guys.
- Yeah.
- And I guess, thanks for being here.
Yousef, thanks for joining us.
And Brian, thank you as always, man.
- Thank you.
Thank you so much, guys.
- Bye everyone.